In this lecture, we are going to add a section to our form.
Adding dozens of input fields on a page can feel overwhelming to a user.
We can group inputs into sections for readability.
For example, I am viewing the permalink page in the admin dashboard.
This page has two sections.
They're called Common Settings and Optional.
Each section has a different set of inputs.
The purpose of a section is to organize fields into groups.
All fields must belong to a section.
At the moment we have a single option.
Therefore we are going to have a single field.
Regardless, this field must belong to a section before creating the field.
A section must be created for containing the options field.
Let's get started by opening the settings api php file.
Inside the function run a function called ad settings section.
This function will register a section with our form.
It has four arguments.
The first argument is the ID of the section.
A page can have multiple sections.
WordPress needs to be able to identify them.
The ID can be anything.
Let's set the ID to up options section.
Next, we must provide the title of the section.
Let's set this argument to the following translatable message Udemy plus settings.
The third argument is the function for rendering this section's content.
Normally, developers will render additional text to help users fill out the form.
It's completely optional to add additional text for demonstration purposes, let's add a function called
Up Options Section CB.
Let's define this function below.
Normally we would create a separate file for a function.
However, these functions belong to the page.
Therefore, I don't mind using the same file inside the function.
Let's output a paragraph tag with the following message an alternative form for updating options with
the settings API.
Let's head back to the ad settings section function.
The last argument is to assign this section to a page.
Currently, WordPress does not know where to render this section.
Let's call our page up options page.
After defining the section, we must render this section from within our page.
Open the options page.
Alt dot php file.
Below these settings fields function run a function called do settings sections.
This function will begin rendering sections for a specific page.
It has one argument, which is the name of the page.
This argument corresponds to the fourth argument in the ad settings section function.
Lets pass an up options page.
Before testing our code, let's run the submit button function to add a button for submitting the form.
All right, let's refresh our page.
The section has been successfully rendered, the section renders a title and paragraph below our section
we have a button for submitting the form.
In the next lecture, we are going to finalize our form by adding fields to the section.